### 【2013】 A Private Customer Historical Transaction Query System of a commercial bank

+ ETL | Oracle

```
This project is a historical transaction query system for private customers of a Shenzhen branch of a large state-owned commercial bank. It integrates historical transaction data from heterogeneous data sources to meet the transaction history query needs of the bank's counter and retail departments for private customers in all branches.
``` 
 
In this project, my responsibilities include:

1. Analyze business requirements and perform modeling and design in Oracle databases.
2. Develop ETL programs to clean, transform, migrate, and load historical transaction data from heterogeneous data sources into the database of this system.
3. Develop ETL programs to clean and load daily incremental transaction data into the database of this system.
4. Develop and optimize query interface services for the system's backend database querying.

This project is a query application for transaction data for all individual customers of the branch. The transaction data has gone through three generations of core systems, so the structure of the transaction data differs significantly between different generations. Historical data is exported from backup files in the tape library, while newly generated data is in the form of customized structured files periodically issued by the head office. At the time of my involvement in this project, there were approximately 1.5 billion records of existing data, growing at a rate of 1 million per day.

My main roles in the project include conducting an initial analysis of the raw data structure for the 3rd generation system, standardizing the new structure, and modeling the data tables. When dealing with historical tape transaction data files (approximately 20 years), I developed programs to parse and transform the data, and loaded it into the database, completing the task in about two days. In the later stages of the project, I optimized the query interface services by integrating them into Oracle packages for use by the backend system. Before the optimization, the query time sometimes approached seconds, but after the optimization, the average query time stabilized at the microsecond level.

